Into day's lesson and in this section we are going to cover one of the most contested topics in web
development today.
See SS in J.S..
Now you might have heard or read about C Ss and J.S. all over the web development community but in order
for us to explore why it's such a hot topic we need to understand what it is in order to understand
what it is.
Let's just quickly go over what we already know about C Ss so the current way in reactor applications
that we add CSF to our application is we import them into our component files and we try to namespace
R CSX to the top level components classes or any of the children's classes but we scope them as best
as we can with the C Ss that we write.
We've done this extensively in our application that we just built but our application is still rather
small in scale.
One of the big issues with CSX is that when it was created we were only making Web sites that were single
pages or a collection of maybe four or five pages at most.
And the styling if you remember from the 90s was very basic browsers were not that powerful back then
and the web was not as evolved as it is today in today's day and age.
We've built these complex applications that people could not even imagine back in the day.
And as a result coding standards have changed and adapted to these large scale web applications that
we build now.
Now what I have here is actually a quick little create react app application to demonstrate CSX and
yes.
But before I go further we have to talk more about the flaws in CSX.
So inside of this application what I have is just this basic app component that renders a car component
and what the car component is is it's just a display component so it just wraps whatever components
are nested inside of it.
So ergo the children property and it wraps it in a div with the class name ID card and then the card
has these styles on it.
Very simple very basic component but it's a very generic component
what we do is we scope RC SS to the class component that represents our car component.
If however we were building a very large application with many elements that possibly resemble cards
you can imagine that if I implemented this card component near the start of the application by two years
down the road or even one year down the road another developer has to also implement something similar
maybe they have a component that has a card inside of it but they do not know that my card component
already uses the class name card.
Then what happens is that he might write another component.
Use the class name card and then suddenly he suddenly gets my classes.
The reason for this is because CSX all share one single global namespace the moment that we import this
CSX into our card component and our car component is rendered javascript puts this styling into the
head of our application so we can actually see this when we look inside of our elements.
We'll see right in the head all of the stores that we've got these are all the style sheets that we've
written.
That's the index that's CSX.
This is my car.
Does CSX that I imported in.
And then this is my ab CSX.
Right.
That's what happens whenever we import styles into our components react separates it in such a way so
that we're able to visualize that the style sheet is related to our component for our mentality sake.
But the rules of CSX have not changed this store card class name and this talk card styling will apply
to any component that has dock card in it.
Now of course there are solutions that have been implemented in CSX such as the ban naming convention
and all them.
Is is that it's a style of naming your CSX so that you follow a certain format known as The Block the
element and then the modifier.
So here if we look at the naming we can see that if we had a class of block what we would do is we would
apply a class name selector as we've done however as you start nesting deeper you start adding more
to the name so that it becomes more specific.
Right.
So if this span class is inside of our block then what we'll do is we'll say.
BLOCK underscore underscore element so that we're targeting this span
as a result.
What ends up happening is you have these really really nested and really long class names on all of
your components.
But this is a huge mental overhead especially for new developers coming onto the application.
Not to mention that there's so much class names now that you have to be aware of what everything will
be but that adds extra mental overhead for us as developers which is always a bad thing.
But this is the default problem with CSX as mentioned them is a solution that was created based on the
way that CSX was built.
Right.
It's still a solution but based on the cards that were dealt to us when CSX created now because in the
modern world now browsers are WAY faster way more performance and way more powerful we can leverage
javascript to actually create the CSX for us.
There is actually a way that you can do this with react and the way you do it with react is you simply
use a style property inside of our components our HCM Al element and what you would do is you would
make a javascript object.
So for example if I said text styles and I made it an object and in the object we just write CSX rules
with the property being the real name and the value being what we actually want it to be but we instead
of using the kabob case we're used to we would have to use camel case so I could say color goes to red
and font size goes to twenty four pixels I can now pass this textiles into this div using that style
property which exists on every HDMI element and now if we look we'll see that the component actually
gets the style directly written into the element.
Now the issue with doing it this way is that one we actually don't have access to all of the CSA selectors
right.
So there's more specific selectors that we might want to leverage that we actually can't such as the
disabled selector or we also cannot access and child or the before selector but these they're just there's
a list of selectors that we cannot access.
Doing it this way whereas using C Ss and J Yes it takes the approach in a completely different way now.
Before we explore the libraries or one of the libraries I want to talk briefly about it.
So there have been numerous libraries released to tackle this problem of CFS in J.S. but the one that's
the most popular and the most supported is styled components to this point.
It has twenty four thousand stars like get hub and I think the next closest is either radium or Aphrodite
but they aren't even close.
They're barely at ten thousand stars so we're going to explore styled components because it's the most
popular one but before we do I just want to talk about what are the cons of doing CSF suggests and as
I mentioned also SS and Jess it's using a javascript library to render our styles very similar in a
way to what we did here where we wrote them the stars that we wanted for example inside of our javascript
and then added it to our javascript code.
The only difference is the way that this was handled is that it got placed on our div but what's still
happening is that we're letting our javascript add our styles to our HMO.
A lot of web purists believe that CSF should be in C Ss and then and that CSF should not be in J.S.
Right because there is an overhead there does require a learning of it especially for developers that
have been writing front end applications for a long time.
They might be very comfortable with having CSX and CSX and having J.S. and J.S. but the pro is that
the performance is extremely fast.
Now having javascript render the CSF is minimal practically non-existent on performance.
Not only that but it actually gives us a closer alignment to the component driven architecture that
we're so used to today and how we write our ReACT code.
We write our ReACT code because we compartmentalize all of the code that we're writing into components
that have their own function out as a result.
Would it not make sense that we have our C.S. s also scoped purely to that component.
We don't want this possibility of our styles leaking all over the place due to the CSX global namespace
that it occupies.
Well this is actually exactly what CSX and J S aims to solve by using JavaScript to render our CSX and
our styling.
We are able to encapsulate all of our CSX to just the component that is relevant and I will show you
how we'll do that using the styled components library.
So let's take a look at how it works.